HTTP Headers


a person sends a mail to his friend through a courier service or postman

additional data on the packet as in from, to, weight
inside the packet actual data, extra info outside the packet


The receiver person is a server, send is a client, envelop is a request, data is sealed inside the packet, and extra info is headers.
for every req and res, there are packets which we call network packets, and inside those packets the actual data resides
on the packet the info resides which are headers
so from can be ip address, to can be the ip address, content type can be json
what type the content is inside the package.
headers display's the info about particular package.

Headers:

HTTP Headers are an imp part of the API request and response as they represent the meta-data associated with the API request and response.
Headers carry info for the Request and Response Body.
Metadata: Data about data.
A HTTP header is a field of an HTTP request or response that passes additional context and metadata about the request or response.

Real world example
Go to incognito tab, inspect
Request headers, response headers
browser sends the headers: request headers
user agent.

Response headers: server sends the data to browser

Tab headers in response in postman
user agent: which app i'm using which creating a request: chrome, browser
postman token
accept: which type of data i'll accept: any
encoding, connection

X powered by: express, express is adding internally that is server is powered by express
content type automatically selected
content length: how many characters, how many bytes

custom headers:

res.setHeader('myName', 'Piyush Garg')

add a request header,
purpose: learning
req.headers console.log

Best practices:
myName is a custom header
Always add X to custom headers, like express did so that client can understand that this is a custom header and not a built in header.
X-myName 

Built in headers in api
https://flaviocopes.com/http-request-headers/

in authorization and authentication, we will add a token, user id in the headers, so that we know that which user is requesting.

What are headers,
how can we use headers and how can we access them

url encoded plugin
content type - url encoded, is json, postman will select app/json

Middlwware, internally
it will first checks the headers, if the content type is urlencoded, it will parse the request into our body.
it works by looking at the headers, that which type of data is coming to us, how to parse it, is it a json data or is it an image or a file.
Or how to parse it, it parses it and makes it available into our request.body.

Go to source code.
express.json()